---
layout: single
title:  "확률론 기초 - 1강"
categories: boostcamp-math
sidebar:
  nav: "docs"
---

# 23/11/07 학습 내용

<h2>1강 - 확률과 셈 원리 (Probability and Counting)</h2>

<h2>핵심 키워드</h2>
- 표본공간
- 사건
- 셈 원리(곱의 법칙)
- 이항계수

- Applications of Probability<br><br>
: : History, Government, Finance, ...
: : Gambling : Fermat - Pascal 1650's
: : Life! Quantifying Uncertainty
- Naive definition of probability<br><br>
: : **Sample space(표본 공간)** is the set of all possible outcomes of an experiment.
: : **Experiment(실험)** is a very broad term.
: : **Event(사건)** is a subset of the sample space<br><br>
: : Need to be familiar to union, intersection, compliment(of set)
: : There are many things that are counterintuitive
: : So we need to be more mathematically precise
: : **Naive definition of Probability** : P(A) = # favorable outcome / # possible outcomes
: : ex) flip coin twice -> 4 possible outcomes, P(H,H) = 1/4
: : It has a huge assumption that all outcomes are equally likely
: : Also assumes a finite sample space
: : "What's the probability there's life on Neptune? 1/2?" (significant inequality)
- Counting<br><br>
: <**Basic principles**><br><br>
: : 1) Multiplication Rule - if we have an experiment with n<sub>1</sub> possible outcomes, and for each outcome of 1st experiment, there are n<sub>2</sub> possible outcomes for the 2nd experiment, ... , for each n<sub>r</sub> outcomes possible for the 'r'th experiment.
: : n<sub>1</sub>, n<sub>2</sub>, ... , n<sub>r</sub> overall possible outcomes
: : <u>Ice cream</u> example
: : 3 flavors, 2 cone types
: : (tree diagram) 6 possible outcomes (2 * 3)
: : Ex) Probability of full house in poker, 5 card hand
: : (assume that deck is perfectly shuffled)
: : (3 7's, 2 10's)
: : All possible combinations **(Binomial Coefficient(이항계수))**
: : <sub>n</sub>C<sub>k</sub> = n! / (n-k)! * k!
: : <sub>52</sub>C<sub>5</sub> = 52! / (52 - 5)! * 5!
: : P(Full house) = 13 * <sub>4</sub>C<sub>3</sub> * 12 * <sub>4</sub>C<sub>2</sub> / <sub>52</sub>C<sub>5</sub><br><br>
: <**Sampling table**><br><br>
: : Choose k objects out of n (see picture)